---
title: "Structure preserving methods via Global Flux quadrature: divergence-free preservation with continuous Finite Element"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2024-09-10-GF-SUPG
venue: "HONOM 2024"
date: 2024-09-10
location: "Chania, Crete"
pdf: /files/talks/torlo_honom24.pdf
---

The emergence of physical structures and equilibrium solutions, such as
divergence-free solutions in contexts like shallow water and magneto-hydrodynamics, poses a
significant challenge. A simple linear approximation of such systems that already show these
behavior is the linear acoustic system of equations. We focus on Cartesian grid discretizations
of such systems in 2 dimensions and in the preservation of stationary solutions that arise due
to a truly multidimensional balance of terms, which corresponds to the divergence-free
solutions for acoustic systems. Conventional methods, like the continuous Finite Element
SUPG, face limitations in maintaining these structures due to the employed stabilization techniques that do not effectively vanish when the discrete divergence is zero.
We propose to use the Global Flux procedure, which has proven to be successful in
preserving 1-dimensional equilibria [GF-WENO](/publication/2022-05-27-global-flux), to define some auxiliary variables guiding a
suitable discretization of both the divergence and stabilization operators. This approach
naturally preserves divergence-free solutions and more intricate equilibria
involving various sources. 
Moreover, this strategy facilitates the identification of discrete
equilibria of the scheme that verify boundary or initial conditions. 
We use the Deferred
Correction time discretization, obtaining explicit arbitrarily high order methods.
Numerous numerical tests validate the accuracy of our proposed scheme compared to
classical approaches. Our method not only (discretely) preserves divergence-free
solutions and their perturbations but it also maintains the original order of accuracy on smooth
solutions. 

[Slides](/files/talks/torlo_honom24.pdf)

